# My-Java-Programs
This repository contains the Java Programs I've built

<b>Programs in this repository:</b>
<ol>
<li><b>JavaCalculator</b> - Multi-use calculator created in NetBeans IDE</li>
<li><b>EmployeeCostCalculator</b> - Calculation of employee costs, Created in NetBeans as a Maven Project.</li>
<li><b>HowFastCanYouType</b> - This program calculates the amount of time it takes for the user to type an idiom into a textfield. The idiom is randomly generated when the user clicks a start button. The program was originally a homework assignment from my school. I decided to recreate it with an added feature. The new feature is the program writing the user's info (idiom and time it took to write it) into an excel spreadsheet.</li>
<li><b>GPACalculator</b> - This program takes in class information from an excel spreadsheet. (Class Info.xls in the Grades folder) The program collects that data into an ArrayList then uses functions to calculate the GPA of the classes. The program also allows for the user to add new classes or modify/remove an existing class. When the user adds, modifies, or removes a class, the excel spreadsheet is updated accordingly. The user also has an option to query specific classes by subject. (IFSC, MATH, ect...) <b>Newest update: User can now export Class information to a couple file formats. (xlsx, xls, csv, tsv, pip)</b><br>
  <li><b>VABenefits</b> - Calculates the benefits an individual gets from the VA.</li>
  <li><b>CustomLinkedList</b> - I developed my own custom LinkedList. This was an experiment I wanted to try. It has the functionality to add nodes to the tail of the LinkedList or add a node at a specific index. I have also added functionality to find a node that contains a specific piece of data. I am currently working on adding deletion as a functionality. I want to be able to delete nodes based on if it is at a specific index or contains certain data. I have added a Linked List for some of the datatypes. I plan to add functionality to allow for more datatypes at a future time.</li>
  <li><b>HierarchyExample</b> - This program is a basic example of how to work with abstract classes as well as interfaces. In the HierarchyExample folder there is a picture that gives a visual representation of what the hierarchy looks like.</li>
  <li><b>Who wants to be a Millionaire</b> - This is my version of the famous game "Who wants to be a millionaire".</li>
  <li><b>Othello</b> - This is my version of the game "Othello". I worked on this a while back. It's not very well made, but is still a cool game.</li>
  <li><b>MySQLJavaExample</b> - This program takes data from a MySQL database that I created and displays the data. The database was originally created as a school project. I wanted to challenge myself by creating something different from what I'm used to creating. This program allowed me to mix my knowledge of Java and SQL into one program.<br>
    <b>Future updates: </b>I would like to add functionality for the user to add/remove/update data on any of the tables. I would also like to do more research into giving the user the ability to create their own custom queries. (The user may want to look up information on a single patient or employee) I also plan to do updates to the user interface as it is very plain.</li>
  <li><b>JavaDocumentEditor</b> - This program is my version of a text editor. The program allows the user to type text into a text pane, and open multiple types of files(.txt, .csv, .tsv, .xls, .xlsx) into the text pane. The program does have an undo function, but it is incomplete. I am still figuring out the logic for the undo function. <br>
    <b>Future updates</b>:<br> <ul><li>Get undo function working properly.</li>
    <li>Add functionality to the save menu button.</li>
    <li>Fix issues with opening .xlsx files. (some files give null pointer exception errors when trying to open)</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><b>Top100Earners</b> - This program figures out who the Top 100 earners are in a group of people. In order to figure out the top 100 earners, the program reads through an excel spreadsheet that contains the names and income of each person. There are some people who are on the spreadsheet multiple times. (They got paid multiple times) The program adds the income from the duplicate to the original and removes the duplicate. The program then sorts the people from largest income to smallest. Lastly, the results are written to an excel spreadsheet.</li>
  <li><b>JavaHashMapExample</b> - This program shows a basic example of how a HashMap can be used. In the program, a file containing information on 10,000 employees is read into a HashMap. The HashMap has an Integer key that could be considered an employee id. The other object in the HashMap is the Employee object containing the employee information. Towards the end of the program, it prints out the employee details from the HashMap. Lastly, calculations are done to show the total cost of all employees and then a breakdown showing the total cost of part and full time employees.</li>
  <li><b>Othello Game Version 2</b> - This is an updated version of my Othello Game. I have added noises when the user places pieces down on the board. I have also added a voice function that really has no point of being in the game, but I kept it in because I thought it was cool. There were too many files in this updated version of the game so I had to limit my upload to an executable jar and a couple folders. One of the folders I managed to upload is a folder called "For Nerds" that contains the source code.</li>
</ol>
